We fix the type here.
So we convert the payment date using a function here.
I could have done also this using an expression,
df.withColumn, and I'm overwriting the payment date column,
and I am getting it here as a timestamp.
If I convert it as date I would lose the time part.
Time stamp would have both the date and the time.
I'm going to extract the month,
and I'm also doing a trick here,
instead of importing every function by itself,
I say pyspark.sql.functions as F,
that's a very actually common convention in Spark,
and you just say f.months,
and f dot all the other things,
that's why you don't have to do a lot of imports.
You get that you have here that the dfPayments.
You show and you've got the month. Is it correct?
Yeah. That looks like Jan,
so that's the month number 1.
I can go and do an aggregation in SQL,
that's actually quite easy.
Then I can go and fix the schema here.
Why do I fix the schema?
I don't need to fix the schema because I did the cost myself,
but if I want to make sure that it's either date or bust that I really,
really every time I load,
I want to have dates.
So I can go here,
and I can build the schema myself,
and to make my schema compact here,
I got all the types and I kind of shorten them like that.
You have to be careful with shortening not to clash with anything,
but of course you could have all the other ones here.
As a matter of fact this was supposed to be shorten but I didn't shorten.
So here's the payment schema,
and I do another data frame with the payment schema,
and I load the file again,
and here this time I'm not inferring the schema,
I'm giving an explicit schema which is this one.
I printed my schema and voila,
I have date which is correct,
and it prints correctly,
and I can go ahead,
and here I'm using the month is in extraction function,
inside SQL unlike what I've done here.
I've used the API inside SQL,
I can also use the months function right away,
and I grouped by it and I got my record.